Alright, so
now what I wanna do is I want to introduce
one more piece here that,
or an additional piece.
And that is Debug Element.
So let me go, let DE for
DebugElement and we'll import this and
from here.
Let's go into our second
before each block.
And let's grab this.
So what Debug Element does,
is it basically
gives you like the HTML Element or
the angular version of the HTML
element under the hood.
So you can start to access it.
So what you can do now is,
first of all, we'll go,
we'll pull this down just a second,
pull my notes back up.
And we'll just pull this right
off the fixture debug element.
There we go.
And so now what we can do,
is we can use this to query
the template of the component.
And so let's go and Let's spin this up and
see this in action.
So we're gonna do this.
I'm gonna leave this test here and
we'll go.
It should render the correct title.
And within this,
we're going to capture the.
One thing I need to do is let
me actually in our template.
Let's create, we're gonna create an h1
tag, and we're going to render the title.
So now we actually have something
to test in our template.
All right, so back to our spec.
And so we're gonna create
a reference to that h1 tag.
And how we're gonna do that is
using the debug element query.
Then within this method call,
we can use this by class.
And so, this essentially allows
us to query, the debug elements.
So we're saying we want to query it by,
in this case, CSS.
So these kind of work hand in hand.
And so recording by CSS.
I kinda like how this actually
reads in a very natural fashion.
And then we're just going to grab,
the h1 tag.
So what's this is angry about.
Make sure I imported this correct, yes.
There we go.
And Let's try to re-import this.
So this is where again,
you have to be careful of your imports.
Let me see if this didn't give me
a hint of where this is coming from.
Yeah, so
we want the one from the platform browser.
And that's how that works.
All right.
So
then from here,
now that we have a reference to that.
We can say expect h1,
native element, inner text.
To be and let's go ahead and
fail this real quick just to show that it
is failing or that we have hooked us up.
Save this.
And then let's go into our
code and let's look for,
The just components so expected
This dot, this empty quote to be fail.
So, two things are happening.
One, we expected it to be hello world and
there was nothing.
So that's the first part, but
it's definitely not fail.
So let's go ahead and step in and let's
iterate on this and get this working.
So, title, title, let's just double check.
Okay, so now what is going on here?
Well, if we go into our spec,
you'll notice this fixture.detect changes.
So let's put this in here.
And let's run this again.
And then we'll talk
about what is happening.
So Now you'll see that.
Let me just bump this up.
It's rendering.
But now, it's still not Hello user.
So, what happened here?
So before it was just
an empty string that was like
that the binding had never even run.
And so the template was
actually displaying nothing.
And the reason for that is.
That in the testing environment
change detection is not automatic.
Because, what the angular team
wants to do is give you the ability
to have fine grained control of how
you step through your application.
So when you make a change that you
can verify that it hasn't rendered or
that some pre step has happened,.
Then you force the manual
change detection.
Then you can verify it.
And so this is why one,
when you make a change or
you want to test the template, you need to
essentially force the fixture to detect
changes so it can update the template.
So as a matter of really just convention.
That you always run that
in the before each.
So now let me talk about why there
are these two before each blocks.
So the first one, really the difference
here is that it's asynchronous.
And so
what this does is as you're configuring.
You're testing module and
if you have a component that has
a remote template that you need
to give the testing environment
an opportunity to make those asynchronous
calls and pull those templates in.
And so this is actually
an asynchronous operation.
And so this is why it runs
this in an async block,
and then everything else
in a synchronous block.
And so it's just to take into account,
that you may have external templates that
you need to pull in a synchronously.
So now let's fix this test and
let's get a green.
And then let's just see one more
example of this real quick.
Let's go, component,
title equals hey there and.
And copy this back down.
We'll go here.
Let's run this again and see what happens.
Notice same thing.
Expected Hello users to be either but
it wasn't.
So again, just
pointing this out twice because if you're
testing the template in the component.
You could get
bit by this particular issue and
so, detect changes.
And if we run this again, then we're good.